# RTSC-DVM-

Distractions are unpredictable and may lead to careless mishaps which are difficult to prevent with population growth around the world. Researches have been conducted numerous times to find a solution to prevent loss of life. Passenger security is the main concern of the vehicle’s designers and in order to provide better security for saving lives of passengers, airbags are designed but they do not prevent mishaps from happening. Distraction due to phone notifications and general tiredness are the main causes. A wide range of techniques based on behavioral measures using machine learning techniques have been examined to scope out driver distraction in the past. The recent rise of deep learning requires that these algorithms be revisited to evaluate their accuracy in identifying distraction. There are many facial features that can be extracted from the face to infer the level of distraction. These include eyes closed for longer than 5 seconds, head movements and continuous yawning. However, the development of a shock system to push out the distraction and immediately give an alert is a challenging task as it requires accurate and robust algorithms. This study takes a novel approach by using convolutional neural networks to scope out the distraction and will immediately sound a loud siren to give a sensory shock which brings back alertness. When paired with proper guidance, the said hybrid approach would produce the best solution in real-time to such issues in the future. 

Our methodology is a car safety technology to help save the life of the driver and the passengers  by preventing accidents if and when the driver is distracted while driving. The main objective is to first design a system to perceive the driver’s mannerisms and concentration by continuously monitoring retina of the eye, his face movements etc. The system works in spite of the driver wearing spectacles and in various lighting conditions. The main objective is to bring the driver back from any kind of distraction by using buzzer or alarm. This can also help in reducing over-speeding and rash driving. Traffic management can be maintained by using our software for greater benefit to everyone.

